=head1 NAME

emend - a command-line interface for Emender

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<emend> [B<-clsv>] [B<-o> I<output_file>] [I<test_file>...]

B<emend> B<-h>|B<-V>|B<-L>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<emend> utility runs tests stored in the local file system and prints
a detailed report to standard output. By default, the utility looks for
tests in the F<test> directory, but you can specify individual tests on the
command line.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-o> I<output_file>, B<--output> I<output_file>

Stores a detailed report to the file named I<output_file>. The B<emend>
utility deduces the format of the output file form the file extension:
currently recognized file extensions are B<.txt> (plain text), B<.html>
(HTML), and B<.xml> (XML as described in B<emender_xml>(5)). Note that you
can specify the B<-o> option more than once to generate the report in
multiple formats.

=item B<-l>, B<--list>

Prints a list of available tests to standard output and exits. By default,
the B<emend> utility prints only the test name along with its brief
description. To print additional information such as the author or last
modification date, use this command-line option in conjunction with the
B<-v> option.

=item B<-s>, B<--summary>

Suppresses detailed test results and prints only a brief summary with the
ratio of passed to executed tests. To print a summary with the ratio of
passed to executed test cases for each individual test, use this
command-line option in conjunction with the B<-v> option.

=item B<-c>, B<--color>

Enables colored output.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Enables verbose mode.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Displays usage information and exits.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Displays version information and exits.

=item B<-L>, B<--license>

Displays the license and exits.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

If any of the tests fail, the B<emend> command returns a non-zero value.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<emender>(3), B<emender_xml>(5), B<lua>(1)

=head1 BUGS

To report a bug or submit a patch, please, file a new issue at
L<https://github.com/emender/emender/issues>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2014 Pavel Tisnovsky, Jaromir Hradilek

This program is free software; see the source for copying conditions. It is
distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut
